[Music]
we know it's hilarious the first night
that we got to check by we went to the
grocery store like oh let's get beans
that's all let's get big cans a big tuna
everyday we're like oh you should make
the pants right we never you we put
together for a year we're coming up on
our one-year anniversary I don't know
she cooked for me once other you barely
barely I think a big cake with that's
true when we were on vacation with my
daughter yeah well there's been a
remarkably little cooking in this
relationship she makes she makes up for
it another department Banas yen we are
sitting around Bangkok Airport we just
got the stunning news delivered to us on
livestream that one of the restaurants
who went to when we were in Chiang Mai
which repeatedly vegan heaven is owned
by my old YouTube frenemy Brett Brett
Rowling's frenemy or outright enemy I
don't know so we thought we'd do a quick
video reflecting on the state of vegan
restaurants in Chiang Mai Thailand at
the end of 2017 to start 2018 now I'm
not even let you get a word in edgeways
here because I want to start this video
with a really important disclaimer if
you are going to chiang mai on vacation
in order to eat in vegan restaurants
don't do it like there's no way you can
justify taking a vacation this place in
terms of cuisine or sitting around
people that is just stupid and i think a
lot of people do a lot of people kind of
plan a vacation around going to Chiang
Mai to eat vegan food and that's just
crazy that's that's just nuts I mean
this is not I mean I can imagine going
to Paris for the patisserie you know
what I mean like there's there are some
destinations in the world that are food
destinations we are really talking about
some kind of gourmet high-level cuisine
that you can't get anywhere else where
there's something you're gonna learn
from it it's said that is not Chiang Mai
right Chennai you know there are some if
it's more like the exact opposite if you
happen to be trapped in Thailand anyway
you can stop by these restaurants
if it's you know you know I mean if it's
in between points a and points B for you
but there's no way to justify a vacation
in these terms yes we met a couple at a
Murtagh that seemed just to be going on
a vegan tour right right vegan
restaurant to her right but I mean even
for us so we were we were there because
we had a court case we had to attend we
didn't have a choice really but I
wrapped up my job in Yun and China we
exited Union China we were on our way
from Mancha to Bangkok and Chiang Mai is
literally halfway between those two
places and we had a quarter so we
stopped well what did we do what we were
there if people asked us because people
live home to assess what we were doing a
chairman I was like well we're getting a
lot of reading done and we're sitting
around in a lot of vegan restaurants so
we did end up doing a vegan restaurant
tour because for us there was nothing
much else to do hit the museums and
things yeah that's true we did a couple
other things
museums yeah seems our excusably awful
all right go um I don't want to take
this up what I would say is the
restaurant I would name as the winner
you may disagree what'd you pick I would
say the number one restaurant in terms
of the actual quality of the food and
the overall experience and places in
everything else
I'd say the overall winner is actually a
Mirta so I feel free to disagree no
that's what I was gonna say I thought
you're gonna say vegan no no so I give
the prize to a Mirta but even a Mirta is
weak enough in their cuisine game that
I've got to say it really is hit and
miss so look I think the first time we
went there I had a pretty negative
experience it's true of a lot of these
players we won't repeat so these
restaurant views are based on repeatedly
yeah busy trying quite a few items like
ordering kind of almost the whole menu
over three or four visits at each of
these places so we are we're in a pretty
good position to make review but the
first they are hit and miss and when you
have a hit and miss menu it means that
if a customer like me comes and happens
to order stuff off the menu that's a
myth yeah right the the first time that
we went we got the two different burgers
right right first one the one that's on
the first page of the menu it was great
it was like an awesome vegan patty that
had like kidney beans and all kinds of
great stuff but the the other burger you
got was so whack it was like it was like
a true device close patty that like it
tasted like a wet napkin
in a hamburger that's right yeah and the
two recipes for the for the veggie
burger they look identical on the menu
part but so you people have to try and
yeah and I actually saw when you look
when you look at the reviews on happy
cow some of them are really positive
saying this is the best best veggie
burger they ever had but there were a
couple saying they had the veggie
Burnham was just tasteless oil mock so
those are the two different options of
the menu right right mmm but yeah
they're tempeh ribs were like amazing I
don't know yeah so some things were like
really great so great soy yogurt right
they did they do make their own soy
yogurt and make their own soy ice cream
and a bunch of other stuff a Mirta and
them really nice guard and sitting in
class the operation in bunch of ways but
ordered their hummus partly cuz it was
trying to get more protein in a meal so
hummus was inexcusably awful like you
know absolutely terrible right a picture
look like normal helmets right
chickpea right right right what they
brought out was nothing was nothing like
that like Betty Ann Thomas yeah but yeah
it's a nice place to read except for
when the music was right you're terribly
repetitive yeah chanting did you think
what is do you think Tibetan Buddhist do
you think yeah stuff yeah so I don't
know though to me I'm like a Mirta which
we both kind of pick as the winner that
kind of shows you how the whole scene
still I mean so look probably number two
goes to vegan heaven - mm-hmm this is
chain vegan heaven wanted to we only
have rate if he can happen to so I don't
know if Brett knew I was there bread is
allegedly the owner of this restaurant
maybe you would have poisoned my food
there are a lot of things in the menu
they do right that they're do
spectacularly well
so Panang curry is Patsy you right
that's you is a no problem the problem
pets you is a very simple Thai dish but
that is the best tattoo I've ever had in
my life and I lived in Thailand for
years added up not continuously I still
have a mouse in Cambodia also goes back
and forth town many times that is the
single best version of that this you've
ever had and it's sorry nervously it's
all vegan all this stuff right but for
example the french fries were shockingly
awful when we we ordered some things
that came with french fries and we just
said forget we didn't even eat them like
yeah we tried them forget
franchise this horrible yeah so that is
funny again hit and miss menu although
from our perspective more hits than
misses we had a few things there that
were awful but we really ended up trying
the whole menu yeah pretty good
breakfast yes yeah see that's the funny
thing I guess there is some foreign
influence in the bread because I never
guessed that place was owned by a
westerner to me like their real strength
there is in the Thai cooking not in the
Western cooking not on the veggie
burgers not in the French fries but in
like Thai like penne and Korean Patsy
you and this kind of stuff I like the
khao SOI soup right yeah yeah certainly
several good you know in Thai pumpkin
soup who's known as the bowtie Thai
curries in general quite strong there
which is not to say all their Western
food is bad they did a really good their
falafel was excellent yeah you know and
in Thailand you want a lot of terrible
falafels if you and again I'm ordering
the stuff partly cuz I'm just trying to
get an approaching in my diet get some
hummus get something filling in your
diet so I'm not just eating salad yeah
why don't we delete a lot of salad not
complaining but sometimes you're just
scraping by on salad yeah but wearing a
sign yeah that's true also a great
burger one of the signs they may be
western owned was just that the
breakfast that's a real British thing
you know baked beans for breakfast so I
wonder if that does show some influence
from Bret Rowan's himself I don't know
yeah alright so working in the list we
went to a vegan meet up with other
aspiring vegan activists and a place
called M aim I am ma I am EMA McCann
very hit and miss there's some parts of
the menu where the whole part of the
menu I think is awful but and we if we
had only gone there once we would have
given them a very negative yeah
but we ended up going back several times
which we didn't expect to do and then we
had a bunch of things in the menu that
were really excellent right and you
really wouldn't be able to guess from
the menu what's good and what's bad yeah
and the interesting thing about this
place is that if you don't like the food
you can tell the owner that you didn't
like it and he will not charge you for
it look we didn't take advantage of that
you know when we first went we got a
couple dishes we didn't like but we
didn't want to be we didn't tell ya the
first time we got a mushroom thing and
he was like we didn't eat it basically
on the plate so it was like oh I won't
charge you for that so yeah I think I
just gave discount on that actually but
yeah
but no I mean I didn't want to be jerk
but the first time we went it was so bad
we thought we'd never come back
yeah but then when we did come back we
ended up trying out the placement menu
that that impressed us so yeah I just
say a lot of these places reflect the
amateur nature of a lot of vegan cuisine
and that place is not pure vegan right
right that's the funny things and like
the drinks of honey so you mean is a
nice place to sit and do reading it is a
lot of vegans stay there for hours so it
is one this place where people you know
buy something and then stay for three or
four hours nothing wrong with that or
it's a good place to meet people - it
was nice for that right up for the vegan
meetup right but actually and they have
vegan slogans up but they do have some
stuff with honey with eggs and with
dairy I think their breakfast many
things but their breakfast menu I think
has a ghazan yeah what have you so there
were a couple of things that had to
specify we got vegan versions up there
but anyway the owner does seem like a
really nice guys heart seems to be the
right place yeah actually it is not a
vegan restaurant it is merely vegetarian
and most of the stuff in the menu is
vegan yeah and when we looked it up we
got the impression that it was a bike
cafe but that's right it wasn't no we
finished that out there really the
bicycle side oriented well it's hard
enough to get to though I mean a lot of
these places are like secret yeah I mean
thanks for the internet you'll figure it
eventually but you know a lot of us are
not even a Mirta yeah but it's good
because then they're secluded enough to
be away from roads right so we should
put in a negative review that one free
bird cafe that's terrible right so it
was right on the corner of two big road
two main roads everything we've
mentioned in this point we'll put in the
links in order for for these restaurants
but so everything is basically been a
thumbs up but with some kind of caveat
so far the one that is really a thumbs
down I think is the free bird cafe and
everything there like most of the food
if they if they do reduce the price by
50% it would still be a ripoff you know
I mean it's that kind of thing you could
you can cut the price in half and it's
based on donations yes carrot juice is
there running it as a charity or a
non-profit but to me that's not a good
enough excuse I got to tell you
and they're right on the main drag or on
a road we have ground-level air
pollution coming in and traffic noise
coming in and you walk down
steps you're actually laying but below
yeah
sidewalk level it's just awful so yeah
horrible experience and also just great
you got really bad yes that's right they
they broke some of the basic laws of
cuisine they basically gave me raw but
seared chickpeas and then I had horrible
indigestion for more than 12 hours after
that we need to start a campaign yeah I
know fully cooked beans yeah
instead of fully raw Christina fully
cooked fully chickpeas are fully could
begin vegan they're also called garbanzo
beans that is correct
anyway so look another one that's kind
of a bright light in the list I think is
the reformed cafe which is inside green
tiger right yeah so I mean this place in
terms of the strengths and weaknesses of
what's going on in veganism in in
Thailand maybe in the world generally
this is mostly a nice place to sit yeah
it is mostly a nice place to get a cup
of coffee do we have ice cream we did we
did have we do have vegan ice cream
there's only we only went for breakfast
and lunch we were never there in the
evening because it looks just like there
would be many mosquitoes yeah a lot of
mosquitoes touristy yeah right that's
true there's you know we did see
something sceetos during the daytime -
that's right so just you know because
it's an outdoor and surrounded by like I
mean it looks it looks beautiful the
water features that they have but the
mosquitoes come and get at you yeah but
yeah I think it was you know delicious
but not so healthy the food that we got
there cafe yeah you had a lot of
complaints the more we ended up eating
there several times you had a lot just
being honest meal by meal you were
disappointing but a lot of things to me
but always gonna say all of Chiang Mai
is kind of drowning in coffee shops hmm
there are too many places that exist
first and foremost as a place to sit
there I don't really drink coffee I do
if I'm sick or the something wrong with
me like today at the airport maybe today
at 6:00 a.m. I'm gonna drink some coffee
or something yeah and we get up we serve
we're at an airport right now these guys
I guess um you know uh but yeah the
Chiang Mai people seem to have the
delusion that there's an infinite demand
for coffee shops and you see a lot of
coffee shops
business now 2017 so and well we'll see
what happens with that
you know reform gif a beautiful place to
sit okay place to get some vegan food
yeah sometimes like that I mean like
like you know getting like the mango
lassi that was like delicious but like
you know what's the food value I think
it's just like mixed with coconut yogurt
and and I'm a cheapskate I mean spend as
much on one drink as you'd spend on an
entire meal and all my restaurant yeah
you know it's okay because if that's all
you're gonna get if you just want to get
a coffee or a mango shake and sit around
you know I mean know everyone comes to
chiang mai to waste money fundamentally
waste waste time yeah all right cool but
I think so this is an interesting
contrast a place that really puts them
to shame there's this there's this chain
in town totally 100 percent corporate
non-vegan chain yeah which I refer to
jokingly is the salad conspiracy right
salad conspiracy is properly called the
salad company so it concepts the story
the salad concept anyway will give you
guys a link so that that's not a big in
place there may be four vegan options on
the menu yeah I could all say tato
wedges it's a quinoa energy boost salad
the tofu organic salad yeah that's it
and the juices like there are a couple
types of salad you could also do a
custom salad that's true and their
couple types of salad a couple things
but they're excellent I mean they're
good value for money ordering a salad
there and a sit-down restaurant costs
you about the same amount as getting
salad at the grocery store remember yeah
but I will say like the blocks of tofu
that you got and the organic tofu salad
or free you see you see what I have to
put up with she likes to complain this
mall the complaining is strong in her no
it's cool I mean you know I dig it but
you know I would you say I thought salad
concept really represented a kind of
standard of like corporate efficiency
excellence that the vegan restaurants in
general lacked
you know I mean so in so many ways when
we went there when went to sell it
concepts it's true like you know we had
the same two vegan options every time or
something but I saw it a lot of respect
a lot of admiration for the just how the
hotels ran you know in a real contrast
to the kind of pokey
hippie run made for tourists so babe we
can mention or not back when I did the
videos with Jake Eames over a year ago
your Africa or something now we talked
about some of the authentic Thai places
yeah I really want to endorse any of
them but I guess we'll just put in as a
footnote here pretty much everything
we've mentioned except for salad get to
sell conspiracy pretty much everything
we mentioned is really for tourists and
the prices reflect that and the menus
are in English reflecting that etc etc
but there are also tying in places that
are really by Thai people for Thai
people that don't have that
characteristic right yeah so you know
when the prices are lower and the style
was different and so on yeah on this
trip I didn't have anything positive to
say about any of them I'm a bit of a
snob and I'm also used to be saying
northeastern Thailand I feel as astrum
much stronger vegan tradition than
northwestern Thailand northeast is
called san the northwest is called mana
but I don't know what the less said the
better we went to one place that was a
that would had a much better quality
fare but a year and a half ago and will
in fact this time it was worse but but
when I took you there I mean I was kind
of lecturing you about it but I said
look they're making you food here that's
really significantly different from
anything you're ever going to get at a
Thai restaurant in America yeah I think
I can also get the credit significantly
different for anything we got in Thai
restaurants that are just tourist
oriented in Thailand also right yeah so
you did get to have that experience they
had a kind of fermented tofu yeah which
is very different from very different
Chinese right and you had a kind of
herbal soup that was that was homemade
broth was pretty good right so if the
point if you get out there and want to
try something more authentic you can and
it is much less for Western tastes and
it has like you know that the authentic
soup has big pieces of like inedible
herbs in it and stuff no big chunks of
lemongrass that you're supposed to go
through it's a gallon dal and lemongrass
right right right so a little bit of a
little bit of different thing so I think
we probably went to maybe three other
joints were not mentioning here there
was the place that had the vegan Mexican
bowl was a pure vegan
right so that's the surprise that's not
the same as vegan heaven there's a
totally different restaurant called pure
venom and you remember the small one I
think was called taste of heaven do you
know this one want you read at the
beginning and their world no no no
boomer read the beginning we went and
there were they yoga all day yoga doing
hippies with their wife-beater shirts on
remember that joint yeah so we're not
we're not gonna review them but I'm just
mentioning we did actually go to a bunch
of other places that were not mesh yeah
so we got the links below
um bottom line I guess some people come
from parts of Europe or North America
where there really are no vegan
restaurants then when they get to Chiang
Mai they freak out they just feel so
happy to be to be staying somewhere
where they do have some vegan options I
can relate but as a food destination or
as a vacation activity no this is 100%
not worth it you can't justify your time
and your money and I will say if you are
if you do happen to be in Chiang Mai and
you're vegan and you're not going for a
vegan tour yeah it is less expensive to
go to a market sure sure you know we
went to went to the market and got bread
rice salad bar right right mango
sneakers if you go too right if you go
to real tight tight markets I mean I
guess that's that some chores are there
for that just for the fact that the
fresh fruit is cheap and available and
there are some traditional Thai roadside
well just like eating durian itself
eating rambutan itself you know there
are a lot of things you can just get
straight out the market but mango and
sticky rice is definitely example the
traditional dish that's you know
accidentally vegan yeah it's gonna in
vegan no matter what but on the other
hand going to the market doing those
things we were able to do that because I
still spoke enough Thai I could
communicate in the language at a certain
level and if your only language is
English you're probably gonna end up
going to these same tourists are in
places yeah okay
we are out Banas yen